README.md, before:

# okta-aws-cli

Okta authentication in support of AWS CLI operation. The `okta-aws-cli` CLI is
native to the Okta Identity Engine and its authentication flows. The CLI is not
compatible with Okta Classic orgs.

The Okta AWS Federation application is SAML based and the Okta AWS CLI interacts
with AWS IAM using 
[AssumeRoleWithSAML](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRoleWithSAML.html).
Okta does not have an OIDC based AWS Federation application at this time.

`okta-aws-cli` handles authentication through Okta and token exchange with AWS
STS to collect a proper IAM role for the AWS CLI operator.  The resulting output
is a set made up of  `Access Key ID`, `Secret Access Key`, and `Session Token`
of [AWS
credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
for the AWS CLI. The Okta AWS CLI expresses the AWS credentials as either
environment variables or appended to an AWS CLI credentials file. The `Session
Token` has an expiry of 60 minutes.

```shell
$ eval `okta-aws-cli` && aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Operation](#operation)
* Comparison
  * [Nike gimme-aws-creds](#nike-gimme-aws-creds)
  * [Versent saml2aws](#versent-saml2aws)
* [Development](#development)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [References](#references)

## Requirements

The Okta AWS CLI requires an OIE organization and an [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso) paired with
an [Okta AWS Federation integration
application](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/). The
Okta AWS Fed app is itself paired with an [AWS IAM identity
provider](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create.html).

The OIDC Native Application requires Grant Types `Authorization Code`, `Device
Authorization` , and `Token Exchange`. These settings are in the Okta Admin UI
at Applications > [the OIDC app] > General Settings > Grant type .

The pairing with the AWS Federation Application is achieved in the Fed app's
Sign On Settings. These settings are in the Okta Admin UI at Applications > [the
AWS Fed app] > Sign On. There are two values that need to be set on the Sign On
form. The first is the `Allowed Web SSO Client` value which is the Client ID of
the OIDC Native Application. The second is `Identity Provider ARN (Required only
for SAML SSO)` value which is the AWS ARN of the associated IAM Identity
Provider.

Okta has a wizard to help establish the settings needed in AWS IAM, automatic
generation of a SAML certificate for the IAM Identity Provider, and the settings
needed for the Okta AWS Federation app. Replace these required values in the
URL below. Then follow the directions in that wizard.

* Org Admin Domain - [ADMIN_DOMAIN] - example: `myorg-admin.okta.com`
* Okta AWS Federation app Client ID - [CLIENT_ID] - example: `0oa555555aaaaaaZZZZZ`

`https://saml-doc.okta.com/SAML_Docs/How-to-Configure-SAML-2.0-for-Amazon-Web-Service.html?baseAdminUrl=https://[ADMIN_DOMAIN]&app=amazon_aws&instanceId=[CLIENT_ID]`

## Configuration

At a minimum the Okta AWS CLI requires three configuration values. These are the
values for the [Okta Org
domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-domain/main/), the
client ID of the [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso), and the
client ID of the [Okta AWS
Federation](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration application.

An optional output format value can be configured. Default output format is as
[environment
variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html)
that can be used for the AWS CLI configuration. Output can also be expressed as
[credential file
values](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
for AWS CLI configuration.

Configuration can be done with environment variables, an `.env` file, command line flags, or a combination of the three.

Also see the CLI's online help `$ okta-aws-cli --help`

| Name | ENV var and .env file value | Command line flag | Description |
|-------|-----------------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| Okta Org Domain | OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN | `--org-domain [value]` | Full domain hostname of the Okta org e.g. `test.okta.com` |
| OIDC Client ID | OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID | `--oidc-client-id [value]` | See [Allowed Web SSO Client](#allowed-web-sso-client) |
| Okta AWS Account Federation integration app ID | OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID | `--aws-acct-fed-app-id [value]` | See [AWS Account Federation integration app](#aws-account-federation-integration-app) |
| Preset the AWS IAM Identity Provider ARN | AWS_IAM_IDP | `--aws-iam-idp [value]` | Presets the IdP list to this preferred IAM Identity Provider |
| Preset the AWS IAM Role ARN to assume | AWS_IAM_ROLE | `--aws-iam-role [value]` | Presets the role list to this preferred IAM role for the given IAM Identity Provider |
| AWS Session Duration | AWS_SESSION_DURATION | `--session-duration [value]` | The lifetime, in seconds, of the AWS credentials. Must be between 60 and 43200. |
| Output format | FORMAT | `--format [value]` | Default is `env-var`. Options: `env-var` for output to environment variables, `aws-credentials` for output to AWS credentials file |
| Profile | PROFILE | `--profile [value]` | Default is `default`  |
| Display QR Code | QR_CODE | `--qr-code` | `yes` if flag is present  |
| Alternate AWS credentials file path | AWS_CREDENTIALS | `--aws-credentials` | Path to alternative credentials file other than AWS CLI default |

### Allowed Web SSO Client

This is the "Allowed Web SSO Client" value from the "Sign On" settings of an
[AWS Account
Federation"](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration app and is an Okta [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso) ID. The ID
is the identifier of the client is Okta app acting as the IdP for AWS.

Example: `0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7`

### AWS Account Federation integration app

ID for the [AWS Account
Federation"](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration app.

Example: `0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325`


### Environment variables example

```shell
export OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN=test.okta.com
export OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7
export OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID=0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

### `.env` file variables example

```
OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN=test.okta.com
OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7
OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID=0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

### Command line flags example

```shell

$ okta-aws-cli --org-domain test.okta.com \
    --oidc-client-id 0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7 \
    --aws-acct-fed-app-id 0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

## Operation

The behavior of the Okta AWS CLI is to be friendly for shell input and
scripting. Output of the command that is human oriented is done on `STDERR` and
output for the AWS CLI that can be consumed in scripting is done on `STDOUT`.
This allows for the command's results to be `eval`'d into the current shell as
`eval` will only make use of `STDOUT` values.


### Plain usage

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli
Open the following URL to begin Okta device authorization for the AWS CLI.

https://test-org.okta.com/activate?user_code=ZNQZQXQQ

? Choose an IdP: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:saml-provider/My_IdP
? Choose a Role: arn:aws:iam::456789012345:role/My_Role

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAUJHVCS6UQC52NOL7
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPyJxz4BlCFFxWNE1OPTgk5T...

$ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAUJHVCS6UQC52NOL7
$ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
$ export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPyJxz4BlCFFxWNE1OPTgk5T...
$ aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

### Scripted orientated usages

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ eval `okta-aws-cli` && aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket

$ eval `okta-aws-cli`
$ aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

### AWS credentials file orientated usage

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --profile test --format aws-credentials && \
  aws --profile test s3 ls

Open the following URL to begin Okta device authorization for the AWS CLI.

https://test-org.okta.com/activate?user_code=ZNQZQXQQ

? Choose an IdP: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:saml-provider/My_IdP
? Choose a Role: arn:aws:iam::456789012345:role/My_Role
Wrote profile "test" to /Users/mikemondragon/.aws/credentials

2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

Note: the Okta AWS CLI will only append to the AWS credentials file. Be sure to
comment out or remove previous named profiles from the credentials file.
Otherwise an `Unable to parse config file` error like the following may occur.

```shell
aws --profile example s3 ls

Unable to parse config file: /home/user/.aws/credentials
```

### Help

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --help
```

### Version

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --version
```

## Comparison

### Nike gimme-aws-creds

There are a number of differences in terms of operation and functionality
between Okta AWS CLI and [Nike's
gimme-aws-creds](https://github.com/Nike-Inc/gimme-aws-creds).

The Okta AWS CLI is native to the [Okta Identity
Engine](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/oie-index.htm).
No matter what kinds of authentication flows (multi-factors, assigned users,
etc.) have been applied to the Native OIDC application, the CLI works within
those constraints naturally. The Okta CLI is OIE only and will not work with
Classic orgs.

A simple URL is given to the operator to open in a browser and from there the
CLI's authentication and authorization is initiated. The Okta AWS CLI doesn't
prompt for passwords or any other user credentials itself, or offers to store
user credentials on a desktop keychain.

The configuration of the Okta AWS CLI is minimal with only three required
values: Okta org domain name, OIDC app id, and AWS Fed app ID. There isn't a
need for a configuration prompt to run for initialization and there isn't a
need for a multi-lined configuration file that is dropped somewhere in the
user's `$HOME` directory to operate the CLI.

The Okta CLI is CLI flag and environment variable oriented and its default
output is as environment variables. It can write to an AWS credentials file but
only in append mode. It never risks interpreting and re-writing the AWS
credentials file potentially corrupting other valuable credentials saved there.

### Versent saml2aws

The comparison between Okta AWS CLI and [Versent
saml2aws](https://github.com/Versent/saml2aws) are identical to the comparison
between Okta AWS CLI and [Nike gimme-aws-creds](#nike-gimme-aws-creds).

## Development

Run source code locally

```
go run cmd/okta-aws-cli/main.go
```

Install tools that the Makefile uses like `gofumpt` and `golint`

```
make tools
```

Building

```
make build
```

Testing

```
make test
```

Run golang code quality control tools on the codebase (`go vet`, `golint`, etc.)

```
make qc
```

## Contributing

We're happy to accept contributions and PRs! Please see the [contribution
guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to understand how to structure a contribution.

## References

* [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com/)
* [Okta Developer Documentation](https://developer.okta.com/)
* [okta-aws-cli issues](https://github.com/okta/okta-aws-cli/issues)
* [okta-aws-cli releases](https://github.com/okta/okta-aws-cli/releases)

Commit message:

Document need for `AWS_REGION` env variable if AWS IdP is in a non-commercial AWS region.

README.md, after:

# okta-aws-cli

Okta authentication in support of AWS CLI operation. The `okta-aws-cli` CLI is
native to the Okta Identity Engine and its authentication flows. The CLI is not
compatible with Okta Classic orgs.

The Okta AWS Federation application is SAML based and the Okta AWS CLI interacts
with AWS IAM using 
[AssumeRoleWithSAML](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRoleWithSAML.html).
Okta does not have an OIDC based AWS Federation application at this time.

`okta-aws-cli` handles authentication through Okta and token exchange with AWS
STS to collect a proper IAM role for the AWS CLI operator.  The resulting output
is a set made up of  `Access Key ID`, `Secret Access Key`, and `Session Token`
of [AWS
credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
for the AWS CLI. The Okta AWS CLI expresses the AWS credentials as either
environment variables or appended to an AWS CLI credentials file. The `Session
Token` has an expiry of 60 minutes.

```shell
$ eval `okta-aws-cli` && aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Operation](#operation)
* Comparison
  * [Nike gimme-aws-creds](#nike-gimme-aws-creds)
  * [Versent saml2aws](#versent-saml2aws)
* [Development](#development)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [References](#references)

## Requirements

The Okta AWS CLI requires an OIE organization and an [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso) paired with
an [Okta AWS Federation integration
application](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/). The
Okta AWS Fed app is itself paired with an [AWS IAM identity
provider](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_create.html).

The OIDC Native Application requires Grant Types `Authorization Code`, `Device
Authorization` , and `Token Exchange`. These settings are in the Okta Admin UI
at Applications > [the OIDC app] > General Settings > Grant type .

The pairing with the AWS Federation Application is achieved in the Fed app's
Sign On Settings. These settings are in the Okta Admin UI at Applications > [the
AWS Fed app] > Sign On. There are two values that need to be set on the Sign On
form. The first is the `Allowed Web SSO Client` value which is the Client ID of
the OIDC Native Application. The second is `Identity Provider ARN (Required only
for SAML SSO)` value which is the AWS ARN of the associated IAM Identity
Provider.

Okta has a wizard to help establish the settings needed in AWS IAM, automatic
generation of a SAML certificate for the IAM Identity Provider, and the settings
needed for the Okta AWS Federation app. Replace these required values in the
URL below. Then follow the directions in that wizard.

* Org Admin Domain - [ADMIN_DOMAIN] - example: `myorg-admin.okta.com`
* Okta AWS Federation app Client ID - [CLIENT_ID] - example: `0oa555555aaaaaaZZZZZ`

`https://saml-doc.okta.com/SAML_Docs/How-to-Configure-SAML-2.0-for-Amazon-Web-Service.html?baseAdminUrl=https://[ADMIN_DOMAIN]&app=amazon_aws&instanceId=[CLIENT_ID]`

## Configuration

**Note**: If your AWS IAM IdP is in a non-commerical region, such as GovCloud,
the environmental variable
[`AWS_REGION`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html)
should be set
[accordingly](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html#cli-configure-quickstart-region).

At a minimum the Okta AWS CLI requires three configuration values. These are the
values for the [Okta Org
domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/find-your-domain/main/), the
client ID of the [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso), and the
client ID of the [Okta AWS
Federation](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration application.

An optional output format value can be configured. Default output format is as
[environment
variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html)
that can be used for the AWS CLI configuration. Output can also be expressed as
[credential file
values](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
for AWS CLI configuration.

Configuration can be done with environment variables, an `.env` file, command line flags, or a combination of the three.

Also see the CLI's online help `$ okta-aws-cli --help`

| Name | ENV var and .env file value | Command line flag | Description |
|-------|-----------------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| Okta Org Domain | OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN | `--org-domain [value]` | Full domain hostname of the Okta org e.g. `test.okta.com` |
| OIDC Client ID | OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID | `--oidc-client-id [value]` | See [Allowed Web SSO Client](#allowed-web-sso-client) |
| Okta AWS Account Federation integration app ID | OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID | `--aws-acct-fed-app-id [value]` | See [AWS Account Federation integration app](#aws-account-federation-integration-app) |
| Preset the AWS IAM Identity Provider ARN | AWS_IAM_IDP | `--aws-iam-idp [value]` | Presets the IdP list to this preferred IAM Identity Provider |
| Preset the AWS IAM Role ARN to assume | AWS_IAM_ROLE | `--aws-iam-role [value]` | Presets the role list to this preferred IAM role for the given IAM Identity Provider |
| AWS Session Duration | AWS_SESSION_DURATION | `--session-duration [value]` | The lifetime, in seconds, of the AWS credentials. Must be between 60 and 43200. |
| Output format | FORMAT | `--format [value]` | Default is `env-var`. Options: `env-var` for output to environment variables, `aws-credentials` for output to AWS credentials file |
| Profile | PROFILE | `--profile [value]` | Default is `default`  |
| Display QR Code | QR_CODE | `--qr-code` | `yes` if flag is present  |
| Alternate AWS credentials file path | AWS_CREDENTIALS | `--aws-credentials` | Path to alternative credentials file other than AWS CLI default |

### Allowed Web SSO Client

This is the "Allowed Web SSO Client" value from the "Sign On" settings of an
[AWS Account
Federation"](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration app and is an Okta [OIDC Native
Application](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2021/11/12/native-sso) ID. The ID
is the identifier of the client is Okta app acting as the IdP for AWS.

Example: `0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7`

### AWS Account Federation integration app

ID for the [AWS Account
Federation"](https://www.okta.com/integrations/aws-account-federation/)
integration app.

Example: `0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325`


### Environment variables example

```shell
export OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN=test.okta.com
export OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7
export OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID=0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

### `.env` file variables example

```
OKTA_ORG_DOMAIN=test.okta.com
OKTA_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7
OKTA_AWS_ACCOUNT_FEDERATION_APP_ID=0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

### Command line flags example

```shell

$ okta-aws-cli --org-domain test.okta.com \
    --oidc-client-id 0oa5wyqjk6Wm148fE1d7 \
    --aws-acct-fed-app-id 0oa9x1rifa2H6Q5d8325
```

## Operation

The behavior of the Okta AWS CLI is to be friendly for shell input and
scripting. Output of the command that is human oriented is done on `STDERR` and
output for the AWS CLI that can be consumed in scripting is done on `STDOUT`.
This allows for the command's results to be `eval`'d into the current shell as
`eval` will only make use of `STDOUT` values.


### Plain usage

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli
Open the following URL to begin Okta device authorization for the AWS CLI.

https://test-org.okta.com/activate?user_code=ZNQZQXQQ

? Choose an IdP: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:saml-provider/My_IdP
? Choose a Role: arn:aws:iam::456789012345:role/My_Role

export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAUJHVCS6UQC52NOL7
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPyJxz4BlCFFxWNE1OPTgk5T...

$ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ASIAUJHVCS6UQC52NOL7
$ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
$ export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=AQoEXAMPLEH4aoAH0gNCAPyJxz4BlCFFxWNE1OPTgk5T...
$ aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

### Scripted orientated usages

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ eval `okta-aws-cli` && aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket

$ eval `okta-aws-cli`
$ aws s3 ls
2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

### AWS credentials file orientated usage

Note: example assumes other Okta AWS CLI configuration values have already been
set by ENV variables or `.env` file.

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --profile test --format aws-credentials && \
  aws --profile test s3 ls

Open the following URL to begin Okta device authorization for the AWS CLI.

https://test-org.okta.com/activate?user_code=ZNQZQXQQ

? Choose an IdP: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:saml-provider/My_IdP
? Choose a Role: arn:aws:iam::456789012345:role/My_Role
Wrote profile "test" to /Users/mikemondragon/.aws/credentials

2018-04-04 11:56:00 test-bucket
2021-06-10 12:47:11 mah-bucket
```

Note: the Okta AWS CLI will only append to the AWS credentials file. Be sure to
comment out or remove previous named profiles from the credentials file.
Otherwise an `Unable to parse config file` error like the following may occur.

```shell
aws --profile example s3 ls

Unable to parse config file: /home/user/.aws/credentials
```

### Help

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --help
```

### Version

```shell
$ okta-aws-cli --version
```

## Comparison

### Nike gimme-aws-creds

There are a number of differences in terms of operation and functionality
between Okta AWS CLI and [Nike's
gimme-aws-creds](https://github.com/Nike-Inc/gimme-aws-creds).

The Okta AWS CLI is native to the [Okta Identity
Engine](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/oie-index.htm).
No matter what kinds of authentication flows (multi-factors, assigned users,
etc.) have been applied to the Native OIDC application, the CLI works within
those constraints naturally. The Okta CLI is OIE only and will not work with
Classic orgs.

A simple URL is given to the operator to open in a browser and from there the
CLI's authentication and authorization is initiated. The Okta AWS CLI doesn't
prompt for passwords or any other user credentials itself, or offers to store
user credentials on a desktop keychain.

The configuration of the Okta AWS CLI is minimal with only three required
values: Okta org domain name, OIDC app id, and AWS Fed app ID. There isn't a
need for a configuration prompt to run for initialization and there isn't a
need for a multi-lined configuration file that is dropped somewhere in the
user's `$HOME` directory to operate the CLI.

The Okta CLI is CLI flag and environment variable oriented and its default
output is as environment variables. It can write to an AWS credentials file but
only in append mode. It never risks interpreting and re-writing the AWS
credentials file potentially corrupting other valuable credentials saved there.

### Versent saml2aws

The comparison between Okta AWS CLI and [Versent
saml2aws](https://github.com/Versent/saml2aws) are identical to the comparison
between Okta AWS CLI and [Nike gimme-aws-creds](#nike-gimme-aws-creds).

## Development

Run source code locally

```
go run cmd/okta-aws-cli/main.go
```

Install tools that the Makefile uses like `gofumpt` and `golint`

```
make tools
```

Building

```
make build
```

Testing

```
make test
```

Run golang code quality control tools on the codebase (`go vet`, `golint`, etc.)

```
make qc
```

## Contributing

We're happy to accept contributions and PRs! Please see the [contribution
guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) to understand how to structure a contribution.

## References

* [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com/)
* [Okta Developer Documentation](https://developer.okta.com/)
* [okta-aws-cli issues](https://github.com/okta/okta-aws-cli/issues)
* [okta-aws-cli releases](https://github.com/okta/okta-aws-cli/releases)
